In this lecture, you'll see how to configure S.H. with lab Damul, the topology is very simple.
I've got my ah one with IP address tandoor order order one and I'm going to be accessing it from my
PC PC one at ten or ten.
So let's go on our one first.
And if I do a IP interface brief here, you can see the IP addresses already configured on there.
If I just show Ron, you see that I have not configured my telnet or SFH access the line level yet,
so I'll do that now.
So I'll go to global configuration and will use a username this time rather than waiting.
Wabo execute a salkey username.
I'll have username Blackbox with a secret of lock box one and then I'll configure telnet access first.
So I'll go line vte y zero to 15 and I'll see log in local on there to use the local usernames.
Now if I go on to my PC, if I tell that to tandoor order order one I can put in my username all flag
box on my password of Xbox One and I'll try to do it without putting a typo in while I'm talking.
There you go.
And you can see that I can log in as black box if I exit back to the command line on my workstation
again, if I try to S.H. Dash L to specify the username, which is Black Box and its hand or one, this
is going to fail.
I can see that the connection is closed because I've enabled telnet oxer so that I erm but I haven't
any ibold ss h oxazepam so let's do that now.
So I'll go back onto our one.
The first thing that I need to do is specify a domain name because that's going to be used in the certificate.
So I see IP domain name and I'll use flat box dot com for the example then I need to generate a certificate.
So I see crypto key generates and it's using RSA that will ask me what do I want.
The key link to be it defaults to 512.
Do accept the minimum you can use for associate just seven, six, eight.
So I will use seven, six, eight here and that is now association the Ibold.
If I do, I do.
Sure run again.
You can see that I haven't added anything else to my virtual terminal lines.
These control both telnet and associates access and the default is they allow both to right now, both
telnet and ASIC should work.
So if I go back to the PC again and I try to access H again now it does prompt me for a password.
It doesn't prompt me for the username because that was included in the assets command and I can enter
my password in there.
No, I'm getting into the reserve with SFH.
If I exit out of here and I try telling that again, you see that telnet access is still enabled as
well.
So right now I can get in with either tail it or with SS age.
I don't want that.
I want to disable the telnet access because it's an insecure protocol.
The traffic all goes in plain text.
So do that.
I will go back onto Rohter ah one again and I'll go to my virtual terminal lines configuration again
and I'll transport input.
I'll do a question mark here and you can see I can do all which enables both associates on telnet about
to default.
None will do neither or I can enable just associates or just telnet.
I'll transport input SS age and that is going to only only S.H. access.
Another thing I should do that is best practice is a global config.
Si Ipsus each version two to only accept the latest version.
It's a bit more secure doing this as well.
OK, so that is SFH configured.
Now if I go back to my PC and I try telling that you see that Telnet is going to feel now because I've
disabled telnet on the right.
Ah but if I try to access H.
S H is working and still get.
To me and to the writer, OK, it's about how you configure, assess each and disable telnet.
So it's typically going to be done in the real world.
OK, another thing about real world configuration is that you're not going to be using local usernames
like you saw there.
We're actually going to use an external server to make this more scalable.
We'll cover that in the next lecture.